There were a few factors
that created the need at Bethel
for a more structured training program.
One of those factors included
the regular changeover in personnel.
The brothers have to be more versatile
in their assignments.
They may have to do tasks they
previously weren’t trained on.
Printing equipment became
more technologically advanced;
our building systems
became more complicated;
computer systems were now starting
to be used to control virtually everything.
Well, I feel like Bethel has definitely
always been good about training,
but especially now.
I think everyone sees
the need to continue investing
in the brothers and sisters
that are currently at Bethel.
I don’t think it’s possible for someone
to know less about the trades
than I did when I started.
I remember my first reaction
when I was invited to help
in electrical was fear.
So when I received my assignment,
I found out that it involved
running the heavy equipment.
So I called my parents.
I was really excited about it.
I said, “Mom and Dad,
guess what I get to do?”
And Dad said, “OK, Son.
Well, did you tell them
that you don’t know how to drive?”
It was decided to pull a group
of highly experienced,
highly skilled brothers
to concentrate
on developing and teaching
repeatable, consistent classes
that could bring people’s skill levels
up to what was needed.
We teach well over 100 different classes
in 12 major categories.
Here at Bethel,
I’ve probably been
a part of over 30 different classes,
so it’s been a variety,
depending on
the needs at the time
of the assignment.
I would estimate
that I’ve taken about 15
or 20 different courses
from safety and training
over the course of my 13 years
in learning a trade.
I’ve become certified
in at least these
seven different licensed requirements.
We teach people technical skills,
but that’s not the sole purpose
of the training.
If you aren’t skilled in safety,
you can’t be skilled
in your trade and vice versa.
The objective in all of our safety courses
is to get them to view safety
the same way Jehovah views it
—as a reflection of their spirituality.
So training in safety is essential.
So our goal is to take them
into the classroom
and give them some time
to consider the theoretical.
And then we take them out
where there is a lab set up,
and we have them do some tests on it.
Typically, they will tell us
that they’ve been able to learn
more in a week
than what they have learned
in a year of trade school.
We’ve done over 60,000 instances of training.
And so now receiving this training,
it provides an area or an aspect
in which I can give
my 100 percent to Jehovah.
You see it in their eyes.
They’re just so happy
that they now have maybe a new skill
or a new understanding
that they can use to benefit Jehovah.
I love the fact that I came
into Bethel with virtually no experience.
And not only did I
receive a trade that I could use
to carry out a work
that glorifies Jehovah
but I was trained well enough
that I can share that with others,
and they can be trained too.
Helping someone else
to go from that feeling
of not knowing anything
to feeling productive
and feeling like they’re
contributing is a real joy for me.
And they can take what they learn
wherever they go.
The confidence that people
leave with once they’ve received
that investment
—it’s confidence that they can carry out
whatever assignment
Jehovah has given them,
and the confidence that Jehovah
is going to train them
for whatever is being asked of them.
I think if younger brothers and sisters
are trying to learn a skill
so that they can come to Bethel,
that’s commendable,
but more important is spirituality.
Let Jehovah “finish your training.”
In regard to training,
we’re really only getting started.
The training that we are getting
in this system of things by Jehovah,
and especially related to safety,
is absolutely going
to be vital in the new world.
I can imagine the idea
of being able to use
some of the things I’ve learned
to figure out how
we can use the natural resources
in a way without using them up.
We know that we serve a God
who is known as the “Grand Instructor.”
So the things that we’re
teaching and training right now,
it can only expand in the future.
And as long as you let him train you,
you’re going to be all right.